GAMBLING CHIP
Oh my God!
I must call for help.
I have something in my pocket
that you've never seen before.
Work-related.
irregularly regular. temporary-
subchronic lack of money.
- Jussi. what you just described -
is painfully familiar to all of
us private entrepreneurs.
In earthly terms. "dirt-poorness".
A most familiar state of affairs
for us artists.
I see. Well. I'm going to
stimulate myself to home base. -
at exactly 1.200 metres from here.
Hey. if push really comes to shove -
our Antiquarian Bookstore
will even buy encyclopaedias.
Payment in cash.
- That's good to know.
In case of necessity. - Yeah.
Chip card into the blue slot.
and you'll get home before dawn.
Oh...
Here you are.
Goddammit...
Try to concentrate. will you?
It might work better that way.
Can I help you?
The strange woman's purse was
definitely more expensive-
than my car.
Transaction rejected
Insufficient funds
Sole Sulavesi. 35.
Born in Helsinki.
Hey. I'm sorry about what I said.
Oh. fuck!
Look. I'm sorry.
Is everything OK?
No! But how the hell would you know!
In 30 seconds.
I knew more about this woman-
than I knew about my neighbours
whom I saw every day.
A woman's ungrounded hysteria
always attracts a man's attention.
Yes. address the invoice to me
at the Natunen Corporation.
My name is Topi Penkki. Good.
I agree with you on this.
I just wanted to make sure.
Mrs Natunen.
How did the old saying go?
What happens to the greedy ones?
Here you are.
All right.
I know a suitable subcontractor.
Great. That's all I want to know.
This thing won't be disturbing
our businesses much longer.
Can I set the wheels in motion
right away? - Of course.
The down payment.
- See you tomorrow.
Good morning. Jussi.
I didn't wake you up. did I? -No.
I noticed you came home
at a decent hour last night.
The almost daily need of Anna's
to use my shower-
as hers was always broken-
had been my only contact with women
in a long time.
Why did I suddenly feel that I
needed something more from women?
Thanks a lot. once again.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
Jussi. what's the matter?
Cough up. What's wrong?
You're not yourself at all.
I hurt a stranger yesterday.
Am I getting old or something?
I feel bad about what I did.
Well. find the guy.
Say that you're sorry.
You're the private eye here.
Besides. isn't tracking someone down
all routine to you?
My shift starts soon.
I can drive you somewhere
if you want. OK?
This coffee tastes like shit.
Well. well. if it isn't Mr Vares
and his daily usual.
Did you get an inheritance -
or are you preparing
fora date with a femme fatal?
The latter is closer to the truth.
Come on. have a pint with me.
No can do. I'm having a one-on-one
with an ex-Playboy girl.
She's here in Turku
for some dog show. - Really?
That explains the pink poodle shirt
and the whiff of hairspray.
You're giving her
some drawing paper?
I've been sent some weird letters.
Possible source material.
Or toxic waste. don't know yet.
Come on. take one for the road.
- I can't. Good luck.
Hey. keep in mind that
too much booze-
may cause erectile dysfunction
in middle aged men.
Don't worry. you'll get used to it.
Hey. Ruuhio.
take these with you.
Keep out of trouble.
I've been to this address before!
Thanks. Put it on my tab. will you?
OK. Hey. good luck with the...
Good luck with...
with the hysteric.
Good morning.
Want a cup of espresso?
I'm more used to
the straight guy's coffee.
It's hot in here.
Look... I have a bad memory...
Did we... you know?
A. I never take a man into my bed
on the first night.
B. You saw fit
to pass out like a light last night.
I'm really sorry.
I slept in the guest room.
C. You know nothing
about a straight guy's coffee -
until you've tasted this.
What is it then?
Caffè corretto.
Carajillo in Spanish.
What would be your D then?
The first night rule
does not necessarily apply-
the following morning.
Should we skip over E
and go straight to F?
1 to 6 tablets daily
as needed for anxiety
Juhani.
You know. I had a feeling
at the cash machine -
that we'd meet again.
Quite an unusual profession.
private detective.
What does it mean in practice?
Digging into people's private
affairs. sifting through archives -
sitting in the car.
sleepless nights...
Nothing romantic about it.
Have you ever had...
...any thrilling cases?
- You mean like...
Murder. for example?
- Of course I have.
But they're quite nasty cases.
Let's not talk about them.
I'd rather talk about you.
What seems to be troubling you.
Mrs Sulavesi?
Ex-Mrs Sulavesi!
That's all you need to know for now.
Hey. Jussi Vares
and a clean white shirt!
The world's only private detective
who is also a male prostitute.
Starting to be as rare a sight
around these parts-
as the world's only
erotic pole dancer-
who is also a taxi chauffeuse.
- What is not rare at all is -
that our short-story writer
has marinated himself-
to light years away from
anywhere and beyond.
Even marinated. I can see that my
good friend Jussi Vares is in love.
Nonsense. I say!
Vares knows as much about love
as a pig knows about false teeth!
Anna. do you know what is the metal
of which they've made this pole-
that you rub your most beautiful
body part against every night?
No. I don't.
Cunt-resistant metal!
- Why don't you piss off. Luusalmi!
That's the way to go. Nice style!
Jussi. there's a car
waiting for you outside.
A penny for your thoughts.
Mrs Sulavesi.
I can't afford more than that.
- I guess not.
Are you cold? -No.
Jussi. I'd like to ask you a favour.
It's about my brother's
birthday party.
At your service.
Mr Stahanov.
You are a punctual man.
Mr Penkki. In my profession.
punctuality is a virtue.
That's great.
Good.
Thank you.
Thanks. - I'm not a suit man.
this tie is strangling me...
I hate this as much as you do.
What kind of people are they?
- Timppa owns an IT company.
His wife. Susanna. awful woman. -
is the head of
a private nursing home.
Zip up your fly!
The mosquito repellents
never work...
Once again. one should have known
more than one knew.
About exchange rates.
golf handicaps and the VIPs.
The birthday boy.
Sole's brother Timo Petterson-
was a full-blooded Lions Club lion.
and hls wife Susanna-
looked like she could have used
more cloth for her dress.
Agreat vintage...
- Of course. what else?
This is... Jussi Vares.
- Jussi Vares. Congratulations.
Timo Petterson. Thank you.
Hi. Susanna. - My wife Susanna.
...well it comes
all the way from Brussels...
Hello. - Hi.
Hi. - Hi.
Oh. it's you!
Hampus. hello.
- Congrats. Timppa.
Terhi. could you come over here?
- May I introduce you...
Bank manager von Knorr. -
this is private... entrepreneur
Jussi Vares. - Hello.
There you go!
- Thank you. Susanna.
What do you think?
Nice party.
I meant the painting.
It's my latest purchase.
You've been staring at it quite
intensively for the last 30 minutes.
I bought it
from Liljevalchs in Stockholm.
Quite impressive. isn't it?
- It creates powerful associations.
Yes. and it cost us
quite a bit of money!
Well. here you are.
What a small glass I have.
How about that!
- Dear Sole never gets tired -
of dragging here
those pitiful fiancés-to-be.
Don't worry.
you'll find your Mr Right.
I think I've tested out
enough of them!
Ouch!
OK. we're out of here.
[Skipped item nr. 185]
Sole had enough of her brother.
her sister-in-law -
and the insolent
bank manager von Knorr-
just when I was starting to enjoy
their dull garden party.
But there was worse to come.
I had introduced Sole to Alanen-
and they had agreed to take a tour
of the Turku cathedral.
I could imagine how Luusalmi
would go on. evenings on end-
at the New Pharmacy Pub about
"checking out the wedding church".
Thanks for the nice chat. Reverend.
- Former reverend.
I hadn't set foot in a church
for decades.
Maybe it was high time to do it.
It's high time to go for a beer.
- I see...
Can I ask one more question?
- Pray. open your soul. my child.
What do you believe in?
- Good question.
I don't believe in lasting love
or marriage. -
nor in eternal life or
reincarnation. There's one thing -
that makes the cash register ring
in any religious sect. - What?
Death. Whether due to old age.
illness. an accident or a crime-
or even to taking one's own life. -
death and the fear of it
is the best merchandise ever-
in the history of mankind.
We could concentrate on
living fora change.
Jussi darling.
I must tend to It today.
See you In the evening. At eight?
Sure. why not. I must tend to
some business myself.
But after eight.
I promise I'll pick up with you.
I'm not a pickupl- OK.
In alphabetical order.
if you please! - This is Eino Leino.
Hello! - Alphabetically.
Want to buy some books?
What. has our loverboy-detective
robbed the city library?
One guy paid with books.
couldn't find any cash.
I see. Lack of money seems to be
quite a common phenomenon. -
or why else would short-story writer
Luusalmi be here. doing honest work?
And sober even.
- It breaks my artist's heart-
to see how masterpieces
of Finnish literature-
are used as means of
commercial transaction!
Mind you. the author's copies
that you gave me-
are on my bookshelf with a vodka
bottle and "The Unknown Soldier" -
and will stay there.
despite my financial situation.
Good. But I must say that it makes
my heart bleed. as a man. -
to see Jussi Vares in love.
I suggest we leave my love life
off the agenda today.
How is this young lady of yours
anyway?
What was her name again?
Silja? As in "The Maid Silja"?
Sole. Her name is Sole.
Jussi. how serious
is this relationship of yours?
I mean it.
dump that crazy bitch. Now.
I must say this is
quite an impressive collection...
Linna. Waltari...
Huovinen. Haanpää...
And even a few rarer editions.
This was a preliminary offer.
I shall give my final offer
once I've examined the whole bunch.
Sometimes selling books can be
more profitable than writing them.
That's true. A high-quality book
never comes cheap.
Here's a hat for you. Put it on.
Alanen... Good afternoon!
I've been thinking lately...
For quite a while. actually. -
and I've been wanting to
tell you something.
Oh... Darling. you'd even buy me
a ring if you had the money.
Are you upset? -What?
Are you upset?
- Why would I be upset?
I mean. I thought I
was the expert on being upset.
Don't come to my place
for the night.
You don't understand women
one little bit.
Believe me when I tell you!
Talk things through with this Sole.
It really hurts me to see
a grown man worry himself to death.
The number you have dialled
is not available at present.
is not available....
Oh. the silent treatment. The oldest
and cruellest weapon of women.
Three days already.
Three days is nothing. really.
But you can't say
that you haven't been warned.
This isn't like Sole at all.
Let's go to her apartment.
And. if necessary...
to the police station.
OK. I'm getting a bit worried too.
Quite a stock of drugs.
Her purse and car keys are missing.
Maybe she took a trip somewhere.
Three days' newspapers.
If Sole had taken a trip somewhere.
she would have let me know.
So you're the one who last saw
Mrs Sulavesi? - Yes. I am.
And you are the missing person's...
- Brother.
...person's... - Friend.
A boyfriend? -Yeah.
Are you cohabiting?
- No. We've only just met.
In most of these cases.
things turn out just fine-
within a few days.
I don't see any particular reason
to overreact. - Overreact?
She's been missing for three days!
- That's exactly what I meant.
Jaska. - Jussi. hi.
Why don't you grab your coat
and come with us.
Where? - There's a place
we want to show you.
Is Ruissalo a familiar place
to you. Mr Vares?
I think everyone in Turku
has been there.
Well. Mr Vares...
Have you paid a visit lately?
Yes I have. Mr Hautavainio.
Last week or thereabouts.
With Mrs Sulavesi.
For what purpose?
- It was a daytrip.
A little bit of quality time.
including a picnic. A car ride.
Have you been to this place before?
- Not closer than a hundred metres.
Is that an official statement?
This is a preliminary interview
related to an investigation.
Jaska. what's going on?
- You'll soon find out.
But first. tell us what was
your relation to this Sole Sulavesi.
I'm a boyfriend or something.
One would expect you to come up
with a more precise definition.
Have you had any problems lately?
Any disagreements?
Yes. we're having problems.
I haven't seen her in four days.
Have you ever climbed up there?
Do I have to spell it out for you?
No. I have not.
What has happened? -lf we find any
residual traces of your DNA there -
it will be a very bad thing for you.
What's happened up there? Tell me!
A passer-by found the body of
Sole Sulavesi up there.
The criminal police are
investigating this as murder.
You don't look too upset.
Do you have anything to say?
You'll be treated as a person
close to a homicide victim.
For operational reasons. I can't
give details of the cause of death.
Has the past year been profitable
for a private detective?
You know this isn't
exactly a gold mine.
Sole Sulavesi was a substantially
wealthy woman. Did you know that?
She had a posh flat
and didn't go to work-
but I know nothing about her money.
With her inheritance and the
post-divorce division of property. -
she acquired considerable property.
I don't think my name
will be mentioned in her will.
Was there anything that might have
contributed to this tragedy?
Any possible threats or...
She was a bit skittish at times.
But she...
But she never specified
those fears of hers.
We had other things to do.
OK. you can go now.
What did she die from?
There were some residues of
fluoxetine in her blood.
We're most likely
dealing with a homicide here.
That's all I can say for now.
Your alibi depends on
those two barflies.
One more thing. Jussi...
- I know. I know.
I won't leave
the economic area of Turku.
Don't leave
Sole Aurora Sulavesi.
You are dust of the earth...
To dust you will return.
Jesus Christ. our Saviour.
will wake you up on the last day.
Let us pray for the soul
of the departed.
Mister... - Jussi. Would you consider
investigating Sole's murder for me?
It might be a bit too personal
a case for me.
The police have
no line of enquiry yet.
Two weeks. and they've made
no progress at all.
Sometimes these things take time.
Please. think about it.
I will. I promise. - Thanks.
See you at the memorial service.
You look like you've been
to a funeral.
Maybe it's because I have
been to a funeral.
Thanks.
Jussi. our deepest condolences
on your loss.
As a clergyman.
I would be interested to hear-
what subjects my colleague
dealt with in his sermon.
Forgiveness and sin. - Sin?
What did the honourable reverend say
about sin? - Seemed not to like it.
OK guys. wake up!
Coffee or beer? -Beer.
Beer. - Coffee would be nice.
Jussi. get up. Gotta be in Helsinki
in two hours. -
interviewing
the Prime Minister's girlfriend.
The ex or the new one?
- Get up. Take those with you.
Let's get going. boys.
Let's look at those papers
before you leave.
What papers? -You don't remember?
The papers we studied all night
with great devotion.
You said you'd tackle them
to get things off your mind.
You don't remember.
Yeah. right... those papers.
"Dear Mr Ruuhio. I return to
the subject of my previous letter."
"I hope that you received it."
"I have a fine collection
of newspaperclippings -
that I have been collecting
since I last wrote to you -
more than three weeks ago."
"God will not right this wrong. -
so I'm sending these to you.
Mr Journalist."
"Please. settle the scores.
Yours. Virtanen."
Well. it's not the TPS starting
lineup forthis football season.
Even I have figured out that much.
The letter was signed by "Virtanen".
no phone number or address.
Could it have something to do
with betting?
Match-fixing or something like that?
If you keep your word.
that's your headache. not mine.
What did I promise exactly?
- What did you promise me?
You promised to find out
about this list of names.
Take all the letters. Who knows. you
may even solve the Kennedy murder.
Didn't your TV journalist friend
solve it already?
OK. I'll do it 'cause I promised.
Besides. I've nothing else to do.
I'll have an expense account.
won't I? -Very funny.
Boys. How about singing the hymn
"Jesus Is My Friend Most Precious"?
Or "I Turn My Gaze
unto Heaven on High"?
How about it?
Jesus is my...
- Alanen. stop it.
.... I am safe in His embrace....
The thought of Sole's fate
filled my mind.
I missed that strange woman.
I even blamed myself. although
there was nothing I could've done
I've been meaning
to tell you something.
I just haven't had the chance.
I took Sole home in my taxi
some time ago.
She was with a man.
They had quite an awful row.
A tall. dark-haired man?
How come you know that?
Hi.
No. I'm not interested at all.
But I'll take it anyway.
Death in a bird-watching tower!
"Eyewitness speaks out."Goddammit.
The things people do for money....
And the birdwatche rwas
a retired policeman. -
so the eyewitness report
has quite a professional touch.
"Had been hanged"
or "had hanged herself"?
Jaska. - Are you in Turku?
As ordered.
- I have a delicate question to ask.
Were handcuffs part of
Sole Sulavesi's standard equipment?
In the bedroom. I mean.
No. not with me.
But maybe they were with this guy
from her bedroom photo gallery.
One must check everything...
- So the investigation is stuck?
"Stuck" is one hell of an
understatement.
Jussi. what did you just say?
They're in there.
That's where they were.
True. The glue residues
are visible to the naked eye.
Take fingerprints. will you?
So. a 35-year-old. long-haired.
bohemian looking guy.
Remember anything else?
- I don't know. he was kind of...
Hey... don't touch. - Yeah yeah.
I don't know.
I just had a quick glance at them.
He looked like a poorman's
Cristiano Ronaldo.
I want to ask you something.
- Go ahead.
You never were a real suspect.
In murder cases. you just have to
go by the book. You know that.
We found all sorts of stains
and residues on Sole's nightgown.
Jussi... I should take
a sperm sample from you.
I mean... I. we... You should go
and give a sperm sample.
I read in "Alibi"
that the handcuff keys are missing.
True. The forensics team combed
the area with a metal detector.
And the key wasn't here either.
The stairs to the tower
are quite high. And steep.
Could it be possible that Sole
went up there voluntarily?
Or maybe she was forced.
Tell me... Did you ever have keys
to this place? -No.
Since you're going to
dig into this case anyway. -
let's put all our cards
on the table. How about it?
OK. - This isn't a killing
done in a drunken rage-
but one hell of a tricky case.
I wonder if anyone
has thought of the possibility-
that Sole was just a random victim
of a violent lunatic?
I think the police are assuming -
that Sole had agreed to
meet someone at the tower.
Could you tell me something
about Sole's friends?
Male friends or her ex-husband.
Sakari Sulavesi
is an heir to a metal corporation.
Sole and Sakari
got married in a hurry-
which caused quite a hullabaloo
in the groom's family.
What did the man look like?
Like an ordinary guy.
But he was bald.
Their marriage didn't last
too long. did it?
A couple of years.
And the divorce was a nasty one.
A real lawyer's dream.
Sole had to go to therapy
after the divorce.
I guess Sole wasn't the most
balanced person in the world. - No.
Sensitive. Vulnerable.
From a big brother's view.
Sole was...
A dreamer.
That's how I remember her.
I'm sorry to disturb you.
I was having a meeting here.
So perhaps the two of you -
might go and maintain your
bank relationship somewhere else.
I guess It wasn't the best of days
for Mr Petterson.
And the day didn't brlng me anythlng
new about Sole's mystery man.
I realised how little
anyone knew about Sole's life.
Damn it...
Bloody hell...
There. go and run free in the wild.
You'll find rats everywhere!
Thank you very much
for the information. Bye.
I contacted Sole's ex-husband.
his present wife -
and Sole's best friend.
They all confirmed
my impression of Sole:
A moody. sensitive.
emotional woman-
who had difficulties with her
relationships. and not just with me.
What I didn't know was
that the bird-watching tower-
was one of her favourite places
throughout her life-
and she used to go there
since she was a little girl.
Directory enquiries. good evening.
- Sundown nursing home. please.
The only person I hadn't talked to
was Susanna Petterson.
Her intensive banking discussions
with von Knorr-
added a new dimension to the case.
Sole had said that von Knorr
had harassed her too.
A pint. please.
What would your... pussycat like?
Milk. cream. sardines?
Yeah.
- Wife left? Girlfriend left?
Yes. I mean... no. I...
I'm Timppa. Timo. Petterson.
Timo. A beautiful name.
Thank you. What's your name?
Irene. - Oh. Irene...
That's a lot more beautiful name...
This is Danny. - Danny?
Here's a life saver for you.
- Oh. thank you.
This will bring me back to
the land of the living. I'm sure.
Ooh... Can I buy a round
for everyone?
Sure. but it won't cost you much.
There's only me and those two
loveable rogues over there.
Well. it's four pints then.
And some cream for the cat.
What's he buying us pints for. eh?
That gentleman
over there at the bar counter-
wanted to buy you...
- Beers. Well. thanks a million.
I guess it's good manners -
to ask the gentleman to join us.
Timo...
Hey there. I'm Timo. - Antidote.
Geronimo. - Excuse me?
Geronimo.
- What's your line of business then?
I'm in the banking field.
Oh. I thought the vault operators
are all doing time.
We're having my...
well. my business partner's -
shall we say... farewell party.
How come I don't know you?
I thought I knew all the guys
who pull bank jobs.
You know. there are
many sorts of bank jobs.
Aaltonen. Einola. Taanila...
Doesn't ring a bell.
They're not from
the "Seven Brothers" -
nor from any other work of
Finnish fiction or drama.
Maybe they're Soile's ex-fiancés.
Jussi. You've never taken
any of your cases personally.
Forget about Ruuhio's list-
and help the police
with this Soile case. -
otherwise you'll find no peace.
It's Sole. Get it?
- Sole. Sole. Sole...
Danny. I don't understand
why you shed so much fur.
Well. it hasn't been easy
for you either... - Timppa.
Be seeing you.
We'll be there at the back table.
It's kinda our own private
business meeting room.
Yeah. maybe we'll see again.
You never know.
Hey. Danny. Come on. eat.
It'II make your coat nice and shiny.
I guess you're... in desperate need
of a place to stay the night.
Who's gone missing now?
- Sole's brother.
I've been trying to reach him for
two days. -Well. he's in mourning.
Jussi Vares.
do you have a minute? - Sure.
I'll tell you things that.
for operational reasons -
haven't been revealed to anyone.
I need your help.
We found a bunch of hair
in Sole Sulavesi's fist.
Similar hair were found in a car
near the bird-watching tower.
Could the hair belong to
the guy in the photo gallery?
I can't say for sure.
Can't you take a DNA sample?
- No. we can't.
There were no hair follicles.
So far. every single clue.
every little hint. everything -
has drawn a blank.
Nothing to worry about.
They have keys to this place.
They're part of the furniture.
really. - Can they be trusted?
I trust them.
You see. there's nothing as honest
as an honest crook.
I need two pros
who aren't afraid of the dark-
and can keep their mouths shut
afterwards.
Sure. But I don't take
just any kind of job nowadays.
No banks. Their security systems
are too tight.
This hit would take place
in a more private environment.
You mean someone's got
that much dough in their pad?
Something like that.
Oh. now I see.
Money laundering.
The plans have been laid
and the terrain has been surveyed.
All we need is someone
to carry out the mission.
I dunno. I'm not in a hurry
to go back to prison...
Yeah. Antidote's kinda retired now.
But then again... If I can stay
more in the background. -
then why not.
Our pal could use a little
student grant... for his "college".
I had a guilty conscience.
If I had offered
another kind of love for Sole. -
she would still be alive. Maybe.
What a palace! - OK. Let's go
through this one more time.
Geronimo ties the guy up
with cable ties-
and makes sure
he doesn't walk for a few days.
I get the package and Antidote
stays outside. keeping watch.
If something goes wrong.
nobody talks aloud.
The bastard
may recognise my voice.
And Geronimo's articulation...
- What?
...articulation is quite brutal.
so it'd be easy to recognise.
Questions?
- How much does he owe you?
A thoroughbred mare.
I'll go first
and you'll come after.
Wait here for a while.
Two short whistles is the sign. - OK.
No...
No. no...
You never whistled then.
The job is off. - What?
I don't have time to explain.
Read the papers tomorrow.
Now let's get the hell out of here.
Here's something for your trouble.
so you can manage for now.
We won't see each other for a while.
and we keep a low profile.
This will cause a huge sensation.
... a bank manager and the
managing director of a nursing home.
The police have arrested a man-
but will not reveal his identlty
for operational reasons.
And now. news from abroad....
A cop I know says that
it's a solved case. One-shot.
Did they steal anything?
- Not that I know of.
The arrested man must be
Timo Petterson.
Jussi. you know him.
Would he be capable of
such a clinical execution?
I only know Petterson
a little bit. but I doubt it.
To purchase a gun and hide it in
such a short time? No way. - True.
I heard that it was he
who called the police.
I think he decided to go and say
a few well-chosen words-
to the bank manager.
But the police won't think so.
Petterson may be in custody
for quite some time.
OK boys. let's have some news.
And weather. - Whether or not.
Ruuhio's list of names
was still a mystery to be solved.
It would hardly make me rich-
but at least I'd have
somethlng else on my mind.
Vares. - Petterson.
Petterson!
Is this the famous "one call" -
that the accused is entitled to?
You watch too much TV.
This is the less famous call-
that the client makes
to his private detective-
to say that he wants to meet him.
So. you're officially a free man?
They let me out this morning.
Hautavainio said -
that suspicion towards me
has decreased.
Thanks to the lie detector test.
I suppose.
Well. well. The criminal police of
Turku have entered this century.
How are you feeling?
Great. My sister's been killed.
my wife turned out to be a whore -
and I'm accused of
murdering them both.
Go on. ask.
Did you do it?
No! - What the hell were you doing
in von Knorr's garden -
in the middle of the night?
What do you think? Five letters.
b-o-z-e. - That was only four.
I was drunk. I decided to give
the ready soup man a lesson -
that he'd never forget.
Now I'm sober-
and I want you to
take this case too.
With the killer on the loose.
I'll have no peace in this town.
The town will assign
all available men to this case -
and the Police College
will send them more.
Don't waste your money on this.
I was arrested for a week.
I had plenty of time to think.
Yes or no?
For Sole's sake.
SUNDOWN
NURSING HOME
My visit to Sundown came way too
late to help solve Sole's case.
Susanna Petterson
saw her final sundown-
before I had the chance to hear
what she thought about Sole.
Although now. Susanna
and the "ready soup man"-
as Petterson called von Knorr-
became a case of their own.
Mr Vares? - Yes.
We haven't been introduced. though
we have met a couple of times.
My name is Maria Rodriques.
Sundown was much more
than a work place for Susanna.
It was her whole life. - I see.
In a nutshell. our company provides
high quality nursing services. -
specialising in the care of
Ionely old people-
with diminished physical capacity...
...but we can offer various
recreational activities-
and forms of care
that our competitors do not provide.
What happens now
that Susanna is dead?
We naturally wish to
continue our operation.
May I now ask you a question?
- Of course.
Who commissioned you to conduct
this inquiry? -Timo Petterson.
I thought so.
I just wanted to make sure.
Did you know about
Susanna and von Knorr's affair?
I was Susanna's trusted friend.
I hope I have been of some help.
- Yes. you have. Thank you.
Einola needs something
to calm him down.
Sorry. I didn't realise
you had company. - Doctor!
Erkki Sariola.
activities supervisor. - Jussi Vares.
I was just leaving.
It was nice to meet you.
On rare occasions. extremely rare. -
a private eye
gets a stroke of luck.
Of course. I should have
called Hautavainio-
but I decided to
give myself three days.
I didn't want a feather in my cap. -
I just wanted to bring
Sole's killer to justice.
Erkki Antero Sariola. 38.
Born in Hauho. -
military rank: Sergeant.
a qualified sports therapist.
Owns 10 per cent of
Sundown shares.
Last year's Income.
38.000 euros.
By inference. a bachelor.
Not among the keenest users
of stimulant substances.
Appears to be an ordinary.
decent man.
Perhaps too decent.
llke many othercriminals.
Excuse me.
could I sit down for a moment?
We met some time ago.
- Yes. Jussi Vares.
Yes. I remember. Sit down.
- I must confess -
that I'd seen you
before we met at Sundown.
In dozens of photos.
in Sole Sulavesi's apartment.
Now the photos have disappeared.
How well did you know Sole?
First. tell me what gives you
the right and why-
are you probing into my
private life? - I'm a private eye.
Sole's brother hired me.
And I knew Sole. Quite intimately.
It's no secret
that we had a love affair-
that lasted for a few months.
Nothing unusual in Sole's case.
What ended your relationship?
Is this really relevant?
I did. Our relationship had
no future. so I ended it.
Sole took lots of photos. She kept
movie tickets and restaurant bills.
I think she had a friends book.
like little girls have.
She even wanted
a lock of my hair.
You know that Sole was
quite wealthy. don't you?
Yes. I also know that
this conversation ends here.
Jaska. I know who was the guy
in Sole's photo gallery.
It's Erkki... - Sariola.
Erkki Antero. We checked him out.
And?- He's clean as a whistle.
Not even a parking ticket.
At the time of Sole's murder.
he was lying in hospital.
Jussi...
Thanks.
I'm totally stuck with Sole's case.
And I guess I'm not the only one.
- How about the list of names?
Still a mystery to me.
How about you. anything new?
About crimes. nothing. But one of
our financial editors said -
that the late bank manager
von Knorr's final countdown -
had begun quite a while ago.
Dubious lending practices.
credit losses...
And: The Financial Supervisory
Authority had been observing him.
He'd been living on a knife-edge
for quite a while.
Until death he did part.
- Amen.
This tastes awful.
Just like old news.
Thanks anyway. - He's funny.
In all his eagerness. Ruuhio is
totally intolerable half the time.
But some of that eagerness
is contagious.
The case must have
some economic connection.
"I can't ignore this anymore."
"These people have been made
the puppets of gamblers. -
parties to a fraud
that they know nothing about."
Signed by Ursula Virtanen.
Business merger of
the Natunen Corporation...
Calcotec inquiry is withdrawn
Bank manager von Knorr from
the Calcotec board of managers...
Calcotec executive Topi Penkki
gives no comment
Einola needs something
to calm him down.
Erkkl Sarlola.- Jussi Vares. hi.
Could I disturb you for a moment.
despite what happened last time?
I want the perpetrator caught
as much as you do-
so how can I help you?
- I have a llst of names.
Hinkkanen. Taanila. Möller...
and Anttila.
You just listed the names of Sundown
patients. in a random order-
but there's nothing mysterious
or strange about them.
Can you tell me how the name
"Virtanen "Is related to this list?
We had a patient called
Ursula Virtanen. but she is gone.
You mean she died?
- Last February. I think.
How? - In a very natural way.
she stopped breathing.
Do you know anything else
about this Virtanen?
She was an ex-chief accountant.
so she helped out at the office.
But she was so nosy that
Susanna had to put an end to lt.
Did Mrs Virtanen
have all her china in the cupboard?
Absolutely. Her only problem was -
that she poked her nose
into otherpeople's business.
Oh God... Do you know what a
60-year-old whore's pessary-
that's neverbeen washed
smells like?
No. and I don't want to know.
- Neither do I.
But I'm sure this
smells worse than that.
Through complex arrangements. -
they've purchased
shares of high tech companies -
and sold them for a high profit.
Apparently everything was done
in the name of Sundown patients.
Can you tell me about
the Natunen Corporation?
It's one of the biggest
private wholesale firms in Turku.
It is owned by
iron lady Selma Natunen.
Her background is interesting.
I don't know what its
line ofbusiness is at the moment-
but the company has ballooned
during the past few years.
And I'm getting to understand why.
Goddammit...
The scheme is
so diabolically brilliant-
that it almost hurts.
It works like this: Von Knorr gives
Natunen some inside information -
about stock market transactions
and business deals.
Then Von Knorr opens... opened
some phantom accounts-
in the name of Sundown patients.
Using those accounts.
Natunen buys and sells shares -
and keeps the profits for herself.
And the contact man is this
Mr Penkki -
for whom you left a voicemail.
Natunen is smart enough
to use a middleman.
So you mean that Penkki
paid commission to von Knorr-
who operated those phantom accounts.
Right? -Yes. Yes. yes...
Of course he also paid
the director of the nursing home.
Did you know that my wife was not
only a whore but also a criminal?
I'm really sorry.
Did you ever notice-
that your wife had
some extra money to spend? -No.
Well. she made those
strange art purchases...
What went wrong here?
Why did Susanna and von Knorr
have to be eliminated -
and who did it?
Man's greed knows no limits.
Maybe they were unhappy
about their share-
and became blackmailers.
OK. here's the USB modem.
Connect it to your laptop -
and send an e-mail to Mr Penkki.
Speak of the devil...
Vares.
Thanks for calling back.
I've left you quite enough
messages already.
Tell me who you're working for.
I'm working for myself.
just to earn some money.
You won't be earning much
after you hear from our lawyer.
Whatever.
I'll send you an e-mail.
Read it. then we can talk business.
Or you can read the e-mail
in the next issue of "Alibi" -
or in an intranet article of
the Financial Supervisory Authority.
What? What do you want?
I never take the risk-
of pulling a job in the same town
within such a short time.
Don't call me again!
You're hurting me Help!
You fucking asshole.
what the hell have you done!
Detective Pohjola is from the
Economic Crime Unit of the NBI.
Jussi Vares. - Ismo Pohjola.
Boys. I think this is
a much bigger case-
than we've even imagined.
This Natunen Corporation
has been involved in -
quite a few business acquisitions
lately. - Take a look at those.
Most importantly. there is also
a possible connection -
to very brutal
and ruthless homicides.
In a case like this.
a special audit of accounts -
can be conducted
within a short timeframe.
But a court order is needed to gain
access to the account information.
And murder cases
are pretty much a mystery?
Unfortunately.
We have no hard evidence-
but if we take
Natunen and Penkki in. -
it should loosen some tongues.
Check those. - There is.
of course. another option.
Mr Penkki is a fish of deep waters
and just about to swallow the bait.
Vares here.
I sent you a few charts yesterday.
You have a pen and paper?
I'll send you two series of numbers.
The phone number of the
Financial Supervisory Authority-
and my account number.
The harbour. quay 13. When?
That's fine by me.
You must be Vares.
MrPenkki. You're late.
Cut the bull.
Let's get to the point.
Fine by me.
I don't exactly enjoy your company.
The feeling is mutual.
I've never met a blackmailer
before. though. - Really?
I need to find out
how much you know.
And who you've been singing to.
- I'm no choir boy.
Goddammit!
- Besides. I know everything.
For your information:
There's a guy over there. -
aiming at your head
with a sniper scope. - Oh really?
If I raise my right hand -
you'll no longer have a head.
Goodbye. served you right!
Vares! Vares!
I'm OK.
Get anything on tape? I don't
remember what I said to him.
Yes. we did.
His threat about the sniper.
Though I'm not sure
if it would hold up in court.
I don't get it.
Why did the sniper shoot Penkki -
if he was aiming at me?
This case turns
stranger and stranger.
Now we must think about
our next move.
Let's take Natunen in.
that should soften her up.
Is there any way to connect her
to those homicides?
No. Not yet anyway. The Economic
Crime Unit will do their job-
once we get the investigation going.
They have their strike units ready.
What do you say to
a little bluff for the lady?
I think we've been bluffing
enough for today.
No. listen. I'm sure Penkki
had his phone with him.
Let's send Natunen a message
like: "Didn't work out. -
more instructions needed".
or something like that. OK?
Natunen is far too smart.
Dead end. - Well. let's call
the Economic Crime Unit.
Captain Hautavainio. - Lieutenant.
You have kept me here
for an intolerably long time.
Do you have any idea of what harm
this will do to my business?
2 weeks is a short time
compared to life.
And I don't care one bit
about your business!
I have an unsolved murder case
on my desk. - I run a company.
And all the things related to it
are on my desk. - Right.
You have friends in high places.
I'm going to have to let you go.
I can't connect you to a homicide.
At least not yet.
I'm shocked at
your simplemindedness.
Topi Penkki was my business partner
for more than 10 years.
It is appalling to find such
dark sides in one's friends.
You do know how to talk.
And cover up your tracks.
But we'll be meeting again.
The economic charges will be enough
to get you sentenced. Believe me.
By the way. can you explain
why a professional killer-
decided to shoot his employer?
- How could I have an explanation?
18. 12.
16. 18. 15...
Yummy... You sweet little
sugarbaby. Let me see....
You're a gorgeous lady.
I'm dying to get to know you better.
There. done.
Good evening. Mr Stahanov.
Commercial Councellor Natunen.
I presume.
How is your business going?
I have suffered setbacks lately.
thank you for asking. - Oh?
You shot my dear business associate
without being commissioned to do so.
You shot the wrong man!
A Russkie is a Russkie.
even if you fry him in butter!
Thanks to you.
the Economic Crime Unit-
harass me day and night!
- Maybe we could discuss this...
The time of discussions is over.
MrStahanov. -
narcissism is a dangerous trait of
character in your profession.
Dasvldanya.
Well. if it isn't Jussi.
Come and watch
the reality show of the year.
We've done all the tricks available.
This is as clear as we could get it.
Was this filmed by
our friend Penkki? - Yes.
From the garage roof.
His shoe prints were found there.
What the hell was he doing there?
And the killer
doesn't look up even once.
Another inexplicable detail.
Is there anything familiar
about this man?
About his physique
or the way he walks?
I can't say there is.
- I didn't think so.
We sent copies to the National
Bureau of Investigation. Interpol -
and the Border Guard.
but I doubt that it helps.
Mrs Virtanen died quite suddenly...
Is it hard to get permission
to reopen a grave?
An exhumation permit is no problem.
Thanks.
But it would be of no use.
Ursula Virtanen was cremated.
according to her wishes.
I have to concede that we must
close the investigation -
into the events leading to
the death of Sole Sulavesi.
Oh... Darling. you'd even buy me
a ring if you had the money.
Are you upset?
I thought I
was the expert on being upset.
Vares. Let's go for a drive.
I can see that you don't like
high places. Jussi.
You could tell me why we're here.
I don't think
it's because of the view.
I mean. think about it.
A skittish. unbalanced woman -
who'd had two
disappointments in her life.
First this Sariola guy. then me.
Get it? What if she planned
it all really carefully?
Killed herself.
but framed Sariola for murder.
A bitter woman's revenge.
Your theory would explain
that bunch of hair.
Could you hang yourself
wearing these? -What?
Yeah. I could do that.
What if she swallowed the key?
They did a full autopsy on her-
and found nothing unusual
in her stomach.
Just some residuals of medicine.
She loved to feed animals.
she did it often.
What if she threw the key away
and a magpie took it?
Even if we found the key. it should
only have Sole's fingerprints on it.
If you think that the police
have the resources to check-
every goddamn magpie nest
of Southwest Finland. -
you're either drunk
or crazy or both.
This isn't easy for me either.
I have four unsolved homicides
on my desk.
The theory of Sole's suicide
is possible-
but there's no way to prove it.
This is the toughest case
of my career. I can tell you.
And it's not hard to admit that all
the lines of enquiry are blocked.
It hurts my professional pride.
There was no way
I could've saved her. -I guess not.
And I couldn't bring the culprit
to justice. for that matter.
Well. I'm glad that murder never
expires. - Yeah. but Jaska. we do.
Cat food
Congratulations... - Cheers!
To the happily engaged couple!
- Congratulations and...
A kiss. - Hey. good idea!
A kiss.
- For the mother-in-law...
On my behalf. I want to
congratulate the happy couple.
A kiss!
- Hey. this one's on Geronimo.
Subtitles: Outi Kainulainen
Broadcast Text International